NI Traktor Kontrol S2 MK1 mapping (#412)
mixxxdj/manual: source/hardware/controllers/native_instruments_traktor_kontrol_s2_mk1.rst

Native Instruments Traktor Kontrol S2 MK1
=========================================

The Native Instruments Traktor Kontrol S2 MK1 is a 2 deck all-in-one
controller with an integrated audio interface. It has a pair of balanced
1/4" TRS outputs and a pair of unbalanced RCA outputs which both output
the main mix, a 1/4" TRS headphone jack, and a 1/4" TRS microphone
input. The microphone input is not digitized and routed internally
to the outputs. The Kontrol S2 MK1 can run with only USB
bus power and an optional power supply can be connected to make the LEDs
brighter and the headphone output louder.

The Kontrol S2 MK1 can be distinguished from the Mk2 by the jog wheels.

> The top of the jog wheels on the Mk1 are black; The top of the jog wheels
> on the MK2 are shiny aluminum; The Kontrol S2 Mk3 does not have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The S2 MK1 has pressure sensitive jog wheels made of black plastic, while the S2 MK2 has touch sensitive jog wheels made of shiny aluminium; The Kontrol S2 MK3 does not have
```

effects knobs at the top.

.. versionadded:: 2.3.4

Compatibility
-------------

The Kontrol S2 MK1 is a USB audio and HID class compliant device. It is
fully compatible with Linux, Windows, and macOS. No proprietary driver
is required on Linux or macOS. For Windows, download and install the
latest driver from `Native Instruments’
website <https://www.native-instruments.com/en/support/downloads/drivers-other-files/>`__.

Audio routing
-------------

========================  =======================
Output                    Channels
========================  =======================
:guilabel:`Master`        Channel 1 - 2
:guilabel:`Headphones`    Channel 3 - 4
========================  =======================

The microphone is routed internally and is not accessible to Mixxx.

Mapping
-------

Decks
~~~~~

Jog Wheels
^^^^^^^^^^

> Touch the top of the jog wheel and turn it to scratch. Move the jog
> wheel from the edge without touching the top to nudge the track. Hold
> :hwlabel:`SHIFT` and spin the jog wheel to seek quickly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Press the top of the jog wheel and turn it to scratch. Move the jog
wheel from the edge without pressing the top to nudge the track. Hold
:hwlabel:`SHIFT` and spin the jog wheel to seek quickly.
```

Native Instruments Traktor Kontrol S2 MK1
=========================================

The Native Instruments Traktor Kontrol S2 MK1 is a 2 deck all-in-one
controller with an integrated audio interface. It has a pair of balanced
1/4" TRS outputs and a pair of unbalanced RCA outputs which both output
the main mix, a 1/4" TRS headphone jack, and a 1/4" TRS microphone
input. The microphone input is not digitized and routed internally
to the outputs. The Kontrol S2 MK1 can run with only USB
bus power and an optional power supply can be connected to make the LEDs
brighter and the headphone output louder.

The Kontrol S2 MK1 can be distinguished from the Mk2 by the jog wheels.
The top of the jog wheels on the Mk1 are black; The top of the jog wheels
on the MK2 are shiny aluminum; The Kontrol S2 Mk3 does not have
effects knobs at the top.

> .. versionadded:: 2.3.1

Reviewer: 2.3.4

    sample.
    Looping sampler pads are lit cyan.

Transport Controls
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The transport controls work mostly as labelled on the controller:

:hwlabel:`SYNC` button
    Press to :term:`sync` :term:`tempo`.
    Press and hold to enable sync lock.
    Press again to disable sync lock.
    Press with :hwlabel:`SHIFT` to enable sync lock without needing to hold.
:hwlabel:`CUE` button
    Behavior depends on the :ref:`cue mode set in the Mixxx preferences <interface-cue-modes>`.
    Press with :hwlabel:`SHIFT` to seek the beginning of the track and stop.
:hwlabel:`PLAY` button
    Play or pause the deck. Press with :hwlabel:`SHIFT` to toggle key lock.
:hwlabel:`TEMPO` fader
    Adjusts the :term:`tempo`.
:hwlabel:`RESET` button
    Mixxx `does not yet have a very useful flux/slip
    mode <https://bugs.launchpad.net/mixxx/+bug/1475303>`__, so instead this
    button toggles the top pad row to the intro/outro cues. Press the button
    when it is lit to return the top pad row to hotcue mode.

    When slip mode is implemented in Mixxx in the future, this could be
    changed so :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + :hwlabel:`RESET` button activates intro & outro mode for the

>     pads.

Reviewer: Mixxx has a Slip mode, which of cause behaves different than any other DJ software implements it.
Please describe just what happens in Mixxx 2.3 e.g. :https://deploy-preview-412--mixxx-manual.netlify.app/chapters/appendix/mixxx_controls.html?highlight=slip#control-[ChannelN]-slip_enabled

Discussions about future features/changes shouldn't be in the manual.

Author: This is a direct copy from the Mk2 manual.

    With :hwlabel:`SHIFT`, toggle quantize for the deck.
Fader
    Control the deck volume.

Center Column
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

:hwlabel:`MAIN LEVEL` knob
    Adjust the volume of the main output.
    This acts on the controller’s audio interface output in hardware,
    so it is not mapped to the main mix gain knob in Mixxx (otherwise the gain would be applied twice).
:hwlabel:`SAMPLES` knob
    Adjusts the gain of samplers 1-8.
:hwlabel:`SAMPLES ON A`/:hwlabel:`SAMPLES ON B` buttons
    Toggles the top pad row of the corresponding deck to control samplers.
    Press when lit to return the pads to controlling :term:`hotcues <hotcue>`.
:hwlabel:`BROWSE` encoder
    Scroll through the music library.
    Push to maximize the library browser on screen.
    Turn with :hwlabel:`SHIFT` to scroll 5 rows at a time.
:hwlabel:`LOAD A`/:hwlabel:`LOAD B` buttons
    Load the track selected in the library to the corresponding deck.
    Press with :hwlabel:`SHIFT` to unload a track.
:hwlabel:`LEVEL` meters
    The meters show the levels for each deck.
Crossfader
    Crossfade between the decks.

Effects
~~~~~~~

The Kontrol S2 MK1 uses the `standard Mixxx effects

> mapping <https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/wiki/standard-effects-mapping>`__.

Reviewer: The manual should be self contained and should not link into the Wiki. Please copy what applies for this mapping.

Author: It is the same in the Mk2 manual

Author: I made it self contained instead is that fine to?
